---
title: "Estimating the Populations Vulnerable to Flood Risk in Seoul Using Dasymetric Mapping and Integrated Flooding Data"
collection: talks
type: "Oral Presentations"
permalink: /talks/2023-10-23
excerpt: 'This paper is presented at The 15th Korea-China-Japan Joint Conference on Geography.'
venue: "The University of Seoul"
date: 2023-10-23
location: "Seoul, South Korea"
---

### Abstract: 
It is imperative to establish the geographical areas susceptible to risk before examining how risk is distributed across society. Earlier investigations conducted in the United States and the United Kingdom have often relied upon government-provided floodplain maps that outline regions with a likelihood of experiencing floods once every 100 years. Nevertheless, these floodplain maps typically focus on primary and secondary river flood zones, omitting areas that might be vulnerable to inundation from storm drains and inland flooding. Thus, this research has tackled this issue by incorporating the 100-year flood risk map provided by the Ministry of the Environment and the inundation trace map covering the years 2010 to 2020, as provided by the Seoul Metropolitan Government. Using the integrated flooding data and a dasymetric mapping approach, this study attempts to estimate the populations vulnerable to flooding in Seoul, South Korea. This study employed a 30m x 30m grid-based dasymetric mapping approach, utilizing land use and land cover datasets as supplementary information. This technique aimed to estimate the potential impact on individuals due to flooding, and its outcomes were compared against traditional centroid-containment and areal weighting methods. The dasymetric mapping approach was used to uncover the spatial dispersion of minority and vulnerable populations. Preliminary findings from the research indicate that the traditional practice of areal weighting for census data yields an approximate 9% reduction in the estimated populations exposed to flood hazards. Conversely, applying the centroid-containment method results in an estimated 3% increase in the at-risk population compared to the dasymetric mapping approach. The dasymetric-derived population estimations unveiled an identifiable pattern: vulnerable populations susceptible to flooding tended to concentrate within southern districts adjacent to the Han River, notably in areas like Gangseo-gu and Yeongdeungpo-gu, particularly along the peripheries of secondary rivers in Gwanak-gu, Gangnam-gu, and Songpa-gu. In contrast, foreigners residing within areas at risk of flooding were more prevalent in districts located north of the Han River, as evidenced by their concentration in areas such as Dongdaemun-gu, Mapo-gu, and Gwangjin-gu. This study demonstrates that accurately gauging the population that could be affected by flood hazards holds the potential to enhance the efficacy of emergency management and disaster preparedness significantly.
